---
title: Managing page labels
description: Managing page labels
solution: Experience Manager
feature: Dynamic Media Classic,Viewers,SDK/API,eCatalog
role: Developer,User
exl-id: b62b5cb8-6100-4d0f-afd8-e6daa6ce6539
TQID: https://experienceleague.adobe.com/uYAEtQVUECwPrhZzfkhcxWc4ephiVB0cIOluKU1Uuk4
product_v2:
  - id: fd1f54a9-f50c-467d-8956-cebbaf4f3eb8
    internal-label: Experience Manager
role_v2:
  - id: b69b2659-1057-424e-8fc5-ed9e016dc554
    internal-label: User
  - id: ff6a42d2-313e-452e-93a6-792e4fad9ff8
    internal-label: Developer
---
# Managing page labels{#managing-page-labels}

There are two places in the viewer user interface where page labels are shown: thumbnails mode and the table of contents drop-down.

There are three types of labels that can be defined:

* Labels defined by the author using SYMBOL localization mechanism. 
* Labels defined by the author on the backend, inside Dynamic Media Classic. 
* Labels automatically generated by the viewer.

SYMBOL-based labels are defined using `MediaSet.LABEL_XX[_YY]` and `MediaSet.LABEL_DELIM` SYMBOLs as described in [Localization of user interface elements](../../c-html5-s7-aem-asset-viewers/c-html5-20-ecatalog-viewer-about/c-html5-20-ecatalog-viewer-localization.md#concept-cbfc39344c494eb7b9f6a272cff0cc74). You can define such labels either for the entire ecatalog spread, in which case you should use short SYMBOL syntax ( `MediaSet.LABEL_XX`). Or, specify it for each page individually using full SYMBOL syntax ( `MediaSet.LABEL_XX_YY`).

When you define labels for both pages in the ecatalog spread, the viewer concatenates these labels into one string using `MediaSet.LABEL_DELIM` SYMBOL. SYMBOL-based labels take precedence over labels that are defined on the backend or automatically generated labels by the viewer.

Labels defined in Dynamic Media Classic are stored in the UserData record of individual page images. Same as with SYMBOL-based labels. That is, if both pages in the ecatalog spread have labels defined, they are concatenated using `MediaSet.LABEL_DELIM` SYMBOL in landscape mode. Dynamic Media Classic labels take precedence over automatically generated labels, but are overridden by SYMBOL-based labels.

Automatically generated labels are sequential numbers assigned to all pages in the ecatalog. Automatically generated labels are ignored for the given spread if it has SYMBOL-based labels defined or Dynamic Media Classic labels defined.

In the table of contents, it is possible to disable the display of automatically generated labels using `showdefault` parameter.
