---
description: Scene7 Viewers 5.8.2 Release Notes
solution: Experience Manager
title: Scene7 Viewers 5.8.2 Release Notes

feature: Dynamic Media Classic,Viewers,SDK/API
role: Developer,Business Practitioner
exl-id: 458e11b1-74f3-4a70-87c8-49cef32acf00
---
# Scene7 Viewers 5.8.2 Release Notes{#scene-viewers-release-notes}

## Adobe Scene7 Viewers {#section-5460f4e254d44c5a95196e6cb657b7e4}

## Bug fixes for 5.8.2 {#section-50e7ea1e01dd4e1fa9c8b3e00eb002b4}

* User was unable to turn a page using mouse if `frametransition=turn`. 
* `ImageMapEffect.mapTips=1` mouse click was generating a script error on touch-enabled devices.

## New features and enhancements for 5.8.1 {#section-f55c5ff7f6d0406c8739de4981dd7195}

* Keyboard accessibility in Basic Zoom, Flyout, Mixed Media, Spin, Zoom, Video, Carousel, Interactive Image, and Interactive Video. 
* Added video buffering icon to Video viewer, Mixed Media viewer, and Interactive Video viewer. 
* The value `native` of `playback` modifier is deprecated; use the new value `progressive` instead. 

* Added support for HTTPS streaming playback for [!DNL Dynamic Media] video. 
* Added support for inline video playback on iPhone devices. 
* Added support for external video playback to Video viewer. 
* Improved swatches scroll behavior on touch devices. 
* Added support for devices with both mouse and touch input running Internet Explorer 11 and Edge browser. 
* Added ability to specify both left and right page with `initialframe` parameter in portrait mode on mobile devices in eCatalog viewer.

## Bug fixes for 5.8.1 {#section-867d7f16480f43d5ac0f6e3e4d77ad80}

* User was unable to get focus on video controls by way of keyboard tabbing. 
* In eCatalog viewer, single/double page layouts displayed incorrectly on some devices.

## Known issues and restrictions for 5.8.2 {#section-af67bc1734844f31a89a09004b558c6e}

* The Image Serving modifiers from IS commands are not added to the `req=set` request by design. However, modifiers that only affect image display work fine. Modifiers affecting size must be used in a complex asset. For example:

  `https://s7d9.scene7.com/s7viewers/html5/BasicZoomViewer.html?asset= {Scene7SharedAssets/Backpack_B?extendn=0.5%252C0.5%252C0.5%252C0.5}` 

* Flyout viewer - Internet Explorer 9 sometimes remains onscreen after mouse off. 
* Scaling the browser window leads to incorrect resizing. 
* iPad 2 - A large eCatalog asset crashes Safari on iOS.

**All viewers**

* Watermarks, obfuscation, and locking are not supported. 
* Image presets are not supported. 
* Adding or removing viewer from the DOM using `display:none` CSS or by dynamically detaching it from the parent node is not supported. 
* Embedding a viewer in a table may result in incorrect sizing or placement of the viewer in non-native full-screen mode. Adobe recommends using DIVs instead. 
* Parameters with explicit instance names in the code require instance names in the URL as well to be overwritten (for example, `zoomView.iconfeffect=0`). 
* Image Serving command `crop` is not supported. 
* Close button only works if the viewer is open in a child window. 
* IS commands modifier does not support Image Serving modifiers that affect image size.

**eCatalog**

* Navigating to other HTML page and then returning occasionally causes the viewer to reset back to the first page. 
* Page layout occasionally displays incorrectly after rotating the iOS device. Zooming into the page corrects the layout. 
* Internal links only to left-most page in multi-page spreads. Affects mobile devices in portrait mode. 
* Due to browser limitations, Print feature is not available in Internet Explorer 9.

**Mixed Media**

* Soundtrack play is not supported.

**Social**

* To render thumbnails properly in outgoing email, the `serverurl` modifier should have an absolute URL.

**Video**

* The poster image may encounter a `max size` error. You may need to increase the limit setting for Image Serving Publish. 
* Video captions require a company rule set if the hosting HTML page is served from an external server (not a Scene7 server). Contact technical support for assistance. 
* Analytics tracking may report incorrect play percentage due to buffering. 
* On iPad or Android devices, a black frame may show instead of a poster image. 
* On iPad or Android devices, a black frame may flash onscreen during the loading of the viewer. 
* On iPad devices, black borders are shown on the side of the VideoPlayer component when the background is set to white/transparent. 
* On iPad, using iOS 7, the last frame of video may be distorted. 
* On Chrome, Firefox, and Internet Explorer browsers, occasional macro blocking may occur during video seek in HLS streaming mode. 
* The poster image may not show in the Microsoft Edge browser for the first time visitor. 
* When progressive playback is used, the poster image may hide after the video loads in Internet Explorer 9.
