---
description: Viewers release notes (5.13.1)
solution: Experience Manager
title: Viewers release notes (5.13.1)
feature: Dynamic Media Classic,Viewers,SDK/API
role: Developer,Business Practitioner
---

# Viewers release notes (5.14.1){#viewers-release-notes}

## Adobe Dynamic Media Viewers {#section-5460f4e254d44c5a95196e6cb657b7e4}

 The package includes the following:

* **HTML5 Viewers**

  * BasicZoomViewer 
  * eCatalogViewer 
  * eCatalogSearchViewer 
  * FlyoutViewer 
  * MixedMediaViewer 
  * SpinViewer 
  * VideoViewer 
  * ZoomViewer

* **AEM Dynamic Media Viewers**

  * CarouselViewer
  * DimensionalViewer
  * InteractiveImage 
  * InteractiveVideoViewer 
  * PanoramicViewer
  * SmartCropVideoViewer
  * ZoomVerticalViewer 
  * Video360Viewer

* **HTML5 Viewers for mobile only** (legacy, using 2.4 s7sdk)

  * basicZoomMobile 
  * flyout 
  * genericSpinMobile 
  * genericZoomMobile 
  * mixedMedia

## New features and enhancements for 5.14.1 {#section-f55c5ff7f6d0406c8739de4981dd7195}

* DimensionalViewer for 3D preview and delivery.
* Improved smart video cropping in SmartCropVideoViewer when running in embedded mode.
* Added support for high resolution screens for FlyoutViewer, ZoomVerticalViewer, and MixedMediaViewer (when using inline zoom).

## Known issues and restrictions for 5.13.1 {#section-af67bc1734844f31a89a09004b558c6e}

* The Image Serving modifiers from IS commands are not added to the `req=set` request by design. However, modifiers that only affect image display work fine. Modifiers affecting size must be used in a complex asset. For example:

   `https://s7d9.scene7.com/s7viewers/html5/BasicZoomViewer.html?asset= {Scene7SharedAssets/Backpack_B?extendn=0.5%252C0.5%252C0.5%252C0.5}` 

* Scaling the browser window leads to incorrect resizing. 
* iPad 2 - Large eCatalog assets crash Safari on iOS.

**All viewers**

* Watermarks, obfuscation, and locking are not supported. 
* Image presets are not supported. 
* Adding or removing viewer from the DOM using `display:none` CSS or by dynamically detaching it from the parent node is not supported.

**HTML5 all viewers**

* Embedding a viewer in a table may result in incorrect sizing or placement of the viewer in non-native full-screen mode. Adobe recommends you use DIVs instead. 
* Parameters with explicit instance names in the code require instance names in the URL as well to be overwritten (for example, `zoomView.iconfeffect=0`). 
* Image Serving command `crop` is not supported. 
* Close button only works if the viewer is open in a child window. 
* IS commands modifier does not support Image Serving modifiers that affect image size.

**HTML5 eCatalog**

* Navigating to other HTML page and then returning occasionally causes the viewer to reset back to the first page. 
* Page layout occasionally displays incorrectly after rotating the iOS device. Zooming into the page corrects the layout. 
* Internal links only to left-most page in multi-page spreads. Affects mobile devices in portrait mode.

**HTML5 Mixed Media**

* Soundtrack play is not supported.

**HTML5 Social**

* To render thumbnails properly in outgoing email, the `serverurl` modifier must have an absolute URL.

**HTML5 Video**

* The poster image may encounter a `max size` error. You may need to increase the limit setting for Image Serving Publish. 
* Video captions require a company rule set if the hosting HTML page is served from an external server (not a Dynamic Media server). Contact technical support for assistance. 
* Analytics tracking may report incorrect play percentage due to buffering. 
* On iPad or Android devices, a black frame may show instead of a poster image. 
* On iPad or Android devices, a black frame may flash onscreen during the loading of the viewer. 
* On iPad devices, black borders are shown on the side of the VideoPlayer component when the background is set to white/transparent. 
* On iPad, using iOS 7, the last frame of video may be distorted. 
* On Chrome, Firefox, and Internet Explorer browsers, occasional macro blocking may occur during video seek in HLS streaming mode. 
* The poster image may not show in the Microsoft Edge browser for the first time visitor. 
* When progressive playback is used, the poster image may hide after the video loads in Internet Explorer 9.
