---
title: Scene7 Viewers 5.5.2 Release Notes
description: Scene7 Viewers 5.5.2 Release Notes
solution: Experience Manager
feature: Dynamic Media Classic,Viewers,SDK/API
role: Developer,User
exl-id: f3efc1d4-1276-423b-bc22-557842cebc90
---
# Scene7 Viewers 5.5.2 Release Notes{#scene-viewers-release-notes}

## Adobe Scene7 Viewers {#section-5460f4e254d44c5a95196e6cb657b7e4}

## Bug fixes for 5.5.2 {#section-50e7ea1e01dd4e1fa9c8b3e00eb002b4}

* Video failed to play in Internet Explorer 11 on Windows 7.
* `initialframe` was not affecting portrait mode on mobile devices for eCatalog.

## New features and enhancements for 5.5.1 {#section-f55c5ff7f6d0406c8739de4981dd7195}

* Added Adobe Marketing Cloud Org ID support to the Adobe Analytics integration.
* Updated AppMeasurement JavaScript library to version 1.6.1.
* Search capability now added to the eCatalog viewer.
* Added HLS streaming video playback as a default video delivery method for the majority of desktop systems. Flash-based HDS video streaming is still available as an alternative playback option.
* Added support for both mouse and touch input running under Chrome browser. Microsoft Surface devices fall under this category however, Microsoft Edge does not work with touch input with 5.5 viewers.

## Bug fixes for 5.5.1 {#section-c64001afa2aa460180141bc8dcd507ec}

* Support for right-to-left orientation in eCatalog viewer.
* `tip=0,-1,0` was causing an out-of-range error.

## Known issues and restrictions for 5.5.1 {#section-af67bc1734844f31a89a09004b558c6e}

* The Image Serving modifiers from IS commands are not added to the `req=set` request by design. However, modifiers that only affect image display work fine. Modifiers affecting size must be used in a complex asset. For example:

  `https://s7d9.scene7.com/s7viewers/html5/BasicZoomViewer.html?asset= {Scene7SharedAssets/Backpack_B?extendn=0.5%252C0.5%252C0.5%252C0.5}`

* Flyout viewer - Internet Explorer 9 sometimes remains onscreen after mouse off.
* Scaling the browser window leads to incorrect resizing.
* iPad 2 - A large eCatalog asset crashes Safari on iOS.

**All viewers**

* Watermarks, obfuscation, and locking are not supported.
* Image presets are not supported.
* Adding or removing viewer from the DOM using `display:none` CSS or by dynamically detaching it from the parent node is not supported.
* Embedding a viewer in a table may result in incorrect sizing or placement of the viewer in non-native full-screen mode. Adobe recommends using DIVs instead.
* Parameters with explicit instance names in the code require instance names in the URL as well to be overwritten (for example, `zoomView.iconfeffect=0`).
* Image Serving command `crop` is not supported.
* Close button only works if the viewer is open in a child window.
* IS commands modifier does not support Image Serving modifiers that affect image size.

**eCatalog viewer**

* Navigating to other HTML page and then returning occasionally causes the viewer to reset back to the first page.
* Page layout occasionally displays incorrectly after rotating the iOS device. Zooming into the page corrects the layout.
* Internal links only to left-most page in multi-page spreads. Affects mobile devices in portrait mode.
* `InitalFrame` links only to left-most page in multi-page spreads. Affects mobile devices in portrait mode.
* Due to browser limitations, Print feature is not available in Internet Explorer 9.

**Mixed Media viewer**

* Soundtrack play is not supported.

**Social viewer**

* To render thumbnails properly in outgoing email, the `serverurl` modifier should have an absolute URL.

**Video viewer**

* The poster image may encounter a `max size` error. You may need to increase the limit setting for Image Serving Publish.
* Video captions require a company rule set if the hosting HTML page is served from an external server (not a Scene7 server). Contact technical support for assistance.
* Analytics tracking may report incorrect play percentage due to buffering.
* On iPad or Android devices, a black frame may show instead of a poster image.
* On iPad or Android devices, a black frame may flash onscreen during the loading of the viewer.
* On iPad devices, black borders are shown on the side of the VideoPlayer component when the background is set to white/transparent.
* On iPad, using iOS 7, the last frame of video may be distorted.
* On Chrome, Firefox, and Internet Explorer browsers, occasional macro blocking may occur during video seek in HLS streaming mode.
* The poster image may not show in the Microsoft Edge browser for the first time visitor.
* When progressive playback is used, the poster image may hide after the video loads in Internet Explorer 9.
