---
description: Scene7 Viewers 5.0.1 Release Notes
solution: Experience Manager
title: Scene7 Viewers 5.0.1 Release Notes
feature: Dynamic Media Classic,Viewers,SDK/API
role: Developer,User
exl-id: 308f5ebf-dd28-4f95-abca-24cc6c212bf4
---
# Scene7 Viewers 5.0.1 Release Notes{#scene-viewers-release-notes}

## Adobe Scene7 Viewers {#section-0b0363fae0274737bace119f281e740f}

Viewer upgrades are backwards compatible and therefore, no changes are necessary to your existing web code. However, it is recommended that you test the new viewers on our staging environment. The following website gives instructions on how you can set up your system to access our staging server:

[https://helpx.adobe.com/experience-manager/scene7/kb/base/upgrade-management/testing-scene7-viewers-upgrade.html](https://helpx.adobe.com/experience-manager/scene7/kb/base/upgrade-management/testing-scene7-viewers-upgrade.html)

After you have set up your computer to access the staging server, you can check your website to test the upgrade. For customers using out-of-the-box viewers, best practice is for you to test against our standard staging server and s7is1-preview-staging.scene7.com.

## New features and changes {#section-405e47e202e54943bd843d82415c91cb}

The following were updated:

* Minimum system requirement for Windows operating system is now Windows 7. 
* Minimum system requirement for Internet Explorer is now version 9. 
* Minimum system requirement for Mac OS is now Mac OS 10.8. 
* Minimum system requirement for Safari is now version 6.

The following were refactored:

* viewers to support responsive design. 
* viewers to use CSS input and size markers to control display on desktop and mobile devices.

The following is now supported:

* Adobe Analytics video reports to Video Viewer and Mixed Media Viewer. 
* Event tracking of multiple viewers on the same page. 
* Added `SetIndicator` to Video Viewer and Mixed Media Viewer to visually represent swatches on mobile devices. 
* Added `SetIndicator` to MixedMediaViewer to visually represent swatches on mobile. 
* Added `getComponent` API to allow external access to viewer components. 
* viewers for configuration parameters to be passed as a single JSON object. 
* WebVTT captions to be passed as JSON object, eliminating the need for ruleset configuration. 
* JavaScript templates in eCatalog Viewer for linking image maps to external pages. 
* Linking to pages within the eCatalog Viewer. 
* `stagesize` to Flyout Viewer. 
* `initComplete` handler to viewers for triggering functions after viewers. 
* Analytics handler to viewers for supporting third-party tracking. 
* Added "Select All" button to make it easier to obtain Link and Embed Code for social sharing. 
* FlyoutZoomView for resize method. 
* FlyoutZoomView for setting image reload breakpoints when used for responsive design. 
* Added click support for adjusting volume. 
* SpinView and ZoomView to apply gestures to embedding web page when not interacting with viewer. 
* Added `unload()` API to SpinView and ZoomView to allow disposing of the component at runtime. 
* The Video Viewer to apply gestures to the embedding web page when not interacting with viewer. 
* The ZoomView for initial zoom region. 
* ZoomView to hide `IconEffect` component when zoom is not possible

The following bugs were fixed:

* Potential Flash Fastzoom and Flyout viewers security issues. 
* viewers not loading due to unrecognized UserAgent. 
* eCatalog Viewer mouse drag-and-drop not working in Internet Explorer with page containing image maps. 
* Video Viewer prevents access to unblock Flash plug-in. 
* viewers prevent printing on Firefox browser. 
* Video Viewer displays a slight jitter when initiating or resetting zoom. 
* HTTPS support for HTML5 and AS3 viewers.

The following were removed:

* Social features displaying in full screen mode on viewers. 
* Close button displaying in full screen mode on viewers.

## Known issues and restrictions {#section-368dd0dc138b44e28b49314e4ad0fa1a}

**All Scene7 viewers**

* Watermarks, obfuscation, and locking are not supported.

**All viewers**

* Embedding viewer in table may result in incorrect sizing or placement of viewer in non-native fullscreen mode. Suggest using DIVs instead. 
* Parameters with explicit instance names in the code must be overwritten; instance names in a URL must also be overwritten. For example, `zoomView.iconeffect=0`. 
* Image Serving command crop is not supported. 
* Close button only works if the viewer is open in a child window.

**Adobe Analytics Training**

* When using Scene7 viewers with Adobe Analytics tracking based on s_code.jsp, "page" requests are sent rather than "track” requests for all tracked events. This results in over-inflated page view metrics for pages that contain a Scene7 viewer. To fix this issue, copy the contents of AppMeasurementBridge.jsp to a Javascript file to be served with the viewer page. In the resultant Javascript replace all calls to s.t() with s.tl() for all events other than LOAD event. This issue does not impact Scene7 video viewers using the new Adobe Analytics Video Heartbeat reporting. 
* Internet Explorer: "Access is denied" JavaScript error occurs using SSL / HTTPS with Adobe Analytics tracking enabled.

**eCatalog viewer**

* JavaScript templates in image maps are not supported. 
* Navigating to another HTML page and then returning occasionally causes the viewer to reset back to the first page. 
* Set `ImageMapEffect` rollover modifier to `1` to invoke infopanels. 

* `Frametransition` set to `none` or `fade` is not supported. 

* Page layout occasionally displays incorrectly after rotating the iOS device. Zoom into page corrects layout. 
* Internal links only to leftmost page in multi-page spreads. Affects mobile devices in portrait mode. 
* InitalFrame links only to leftmost page in multi-page spreads. Affects mobile devices in portrait mode.

**Mixed Media viewer**

* Sound track play is not supported at this time.

**Social viewer**

* To render thumbnails properly in outgoing email the `serverurl` modifier should have an absolute URL.

**Video viewer**

* The poster image may encounter "max size" error. The user may need to increase the limit setting for Image Serving Publish. 
* Video captions require a company ruleset if they are hosting an HTML page that is served from an external server that is not a Scene7 server. Contact Adobe technical support for assistance. 
* Analytics tracking may report incorrect play percentage due to buffering 
* Black frame instead of poster image may show on iPad or Android devices. 
* Black frame may flash on screen during viewer load on iPad or Android devices. 
* Black borders are shown on side of VideoPlayer component when background is set to white/transparent on iPad devices. 
* Last frame of video may be distorted on iPad using iOS 7.
