---
title: Dynamic Media Viewers release notes (5.16.5)
description: Release notes for Adobe Dynamic Media Viewers.
solution: Experience Manager
feature: Dynamic Media Classic,Viewers,SDK/API
role: Developer,User
exl-id: 636c8c11-9c79-41f3-8101-29fca0fab074
---
# Viewers release notes (5.16.5){#viewers-release-notes}

<!-- Updated March 03, 2022 for the 5.16.5 release. Contact is Deepa Gupta-->

<!-- hide: yes
hidefromtoc: yes-->

<!-- robots: noindex
googlebot: noindex -->

## Adobe Dynamic Media Viewers {#section-5460f4e254d44c5a95196e6cb657b7e4}

 The package includes the following:

* **HTML5 Viewers**

  * BasicZoomViewer
  * eCatalogViewer
  * eCatalogSearchViewer
  * FlyoutViewer
  * MixedMediaViewer
  * SpinViewer
  * VideoViewer
  * ZoomViewer

* **Adobe Experience Manager Dynamic Media Viewers**

  * CarouselViewer
  * DimensionalViewer
  * InteractiveImage
  * InteractiveVideoViewer
  * PanoramicViewer
  * SmartCropVideoViewer
  * Video360Viewer
  * ZoomVerticalViewer

* **HTML5 Viewers for mobile only** (legacy, using 3.10 s7sdk)

  * basicZoomMobile
  * flyout
  * genericSpinMobile
  * genericZoomMobile
  * mixedMedia


## Dynamic Media Viewers 5.16.5 {#new-features-and-enhancements-5-16-5}

* Fixed 3D assets loading issue in Dimensional viewer on Chrome 97.

## Dynamic Media Viewers 5.16.4 {#new-features-and-enhancements-5-16-4}

* Ended support for HLS streaming in Internet Explorer 11 in Dynamic Media - Hybrid mode.

## Dynamic Media Viewers 5.16.3 {#new-features-and-enhancements-5-16-3}

* Corrected NVDA focus trap in the zoomable view when using +, - and Esc navigation keys. (CQ-4290719)
* Added ARIA support to the volume slider. (CQ-4324080)
* Added visual asterisk(*) symbol for `To` and `From` required email edit fields in the Email dialog box. <!-- (CQ-4290935) -->
* Fixed narrating label information in the Email dialog box using down arrow and form mode shortcut key `F`. <!-- (CQ-4290934) -->
* Fixed error suggestions for the `To` and `From` in the email dialog box on using keyboard tab. <!-- (CQ-4290930) -->
* Fixed label mapping for the **[!UICONTROL Embed Size]** menu button present in the **[!UICONTROL Get Embed Code]** dialog box in form mode shortcut key `F`. <!-- (CQ-4290929) -->
* Empty page title in the **[!UICONTROL Viewer Presets]** page is now fixed. <!-- (CQ-4290936) -->
* Alignment of radio buttons in the Interactive Video editor is now fixed. <!-- (CQ-4330159) -->

## Dynamic Media Viewers 5.16.2 {#new-features-and-enhancements-5-16-2}

* Fixed URL sanitizing to allow for dash character in subdomain. <!-- (CQ-4327691) -->

## Dynamic Media Viewers 5.16.1 {#new-features-and-enhancements-5-16-1}

* Added support for server-side DPR optimization.
* Added support for sanitizing URL configuration parameters. Pop-up viewers now ignore URL configuration parameters that are defined in the query string. This functionality is done in case the domain in the parameter's value does not match the base viewer domain or does not belong to a list of allowed domains.
* Updated product branding to Adobe Experience Viewers.
* Fixed keyboard navigation inside the SocialShare drop-down when one of the subcomponents is disabled in the CSS.
* Fixed JavaScript error when using poster on iOS9 and older devices.
* Incorrect reporting of the current video playback time as NaN is now fixed.<!--  (CQ-4310148) -->

## Adobe Customer Care {#customer-care}

See [Support](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/dynamic-media-classic/using/intro/support.html#intro).

## Known issues and restrictions {#known-issues-and-restrictions}

* The Image Serving modifiers from IS commands are not added to the `req=set` request by design. However, modifiers that only affect image display work fine. Modifiers affecting size must be used in a complex asset. For example:

   `https://s7d9.scene7.com/s7viewers/html5/BasicZoomViewer.html?asset= {Scene7SharedAssets/Backpack_B?extendn=0.5%252C0.5%252C0.5%252C0.5}`

* Scaling the browser window leads to incorrect resizing.
* iPad 2 - Large eCatalog assets crash Safari on iOS.

### All viewers {#all-viewers}

* Watermarks, obfuscation, and locking are not supported.
* Image presets are not supported.
* Adding or removing viewer from the DOM using `display:none` CSS or by dynamically detaching it from the parent node is not supported.

### HTML5 all viewers {#html5-all-viewers}

* Embedding a viewer in a table can result in incorrect sizing or placement of the viewer in non-native full-screen mode. Adobe recommends you use DIVs instead.
* Parameters with explicit instance names in the code require instance names in the URL as well to be overwritten (for example, `zoomView.iconfeffect=0`).
* Image Serving command `crop` is not supported.
* **[!UICONTROL Close]** button only works if the viewer is open in a child window.
* IS commands modifier does not support Image Serving modifiers that affect image size.

### HTML5 eCatalog {#html5-ecatalog}

* Navigating to other HTML page and then returning occasionally causes the viewer to reset back to the first page.
* Page layout occasionally displays incorrectly after rotating the iOS device. Zooming into the page corrects the layout.
* Internal links only to left-most page in multi-page spreads. Affects mobile devices in portrait mode.

### HTML5 Mixed Media {#html5-mixed-media}

* Soundtrack play is not supported.

### HTML5 Social {#html5-social}

* To render thumbnails properly in outgoing email, the `serverurl` modifier must have an absolute URL.

### HTML5 Video {#html5-video}

* The poster image can encounter a `max size` error. Increase the limit setting for Image Serving Publish.
* Video captions require a company rule set if the hosting HTML page is served from an external server (not a Dynamic Media server). Contact [Adobe Customer Care](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/dynamic-media-classic/using/intro/support.html#intro) for assistance.
* Analytics tracking can report incorrect play percentage due to buffering.
* On iPad or Android™ devices, a black frame shows instead of a poster image.
* On iPad or Android™ devices, a black frame flashes onscreen during the loading of the viewer.
* On iPad devices, black borders are shown on the side of the VideoPlayer component when the background is set to white/transparent.
* On iPad, using iOS 7, the last frame of video is distorted.
* On Chrome, Firefox, and Internet Explorer browsers, occasional macro blocking occurs during video seek in HLS streaming mode.
* The poster image does not show in the Microsoft® Edge browser for visitors the first time.
* When progressive playback is used, the poster image hides after the video loads in Internet Explorer 9.
