---
title: Viewers release notes (5.15.3)
description: Release notes for Dynamic Media Viewers.
solution: Experience Manager
feature: Dynamic Media Classic,Viewers,SDK/API
role: Developer,User
exl-id: 00a1069f-8cfe-41b4-aecd-33c2b6f9bcca
---
# Viewers release notes (5.15.3){#viewers-release-notes}

<!-- Updated January 13, 2021 for the 5.15.3 release-->

## Adobe Dynamic Media Viewers {#section-5460f4e254d44c5a95196e6cb657b7e4}

 The package includes the following:

* **HTML5 Viewers**

  * BasicZoomViewer
  * eCatalogViewer
  * eCatalogSearchViewer
  * FlyoutViewer
  * MixedMediaViewer
  * SpinViewer
  * VideoViewer
  * ZoomViewer

* **AEM Dynamic Media Viewers**

  * CarouselViewer
  * DimensionalViewer
  * InteractiveImage
  * InteractiveVideoViewer
  * PanoramicViewer
  * SmartCropVideoViewer
  * Video360Viewer
  * ZoomVerticalViewer

* **HTML5 Viewers for mobile only** (legacy, using 3.10 s7sdk)

  * basicZoomMobile
  * flyout
  * genericSpinMobile
  * genericZoomMobile
  * mixedMedia

## New enhancement for 5.15.3 {#new-features-and-enhancements-5-15-3}

* Fixed XSS issue in legacy mobile HTML5 viewers by updating its SDK version to 3.10. The new out-of-the-box HTML5 viewers used by the Dynamic Media were not affected by this XSS issue so they were not updated.

## New enhancement for 5.15.2 {#new-features-and-enhancements-5-15-2}

* Fixed support for native video playback UI on iOS.

## New features and enhancements for 5.15.1 {#new-features-and-enhancements-5-15-1}

* Added support for passive event listeners.
* Updated 3D rendering library in DimensionalViewer to better support model colorization.
* Disabled focusing of inactive buttons.
* Improved keyboard control and assistive technology support in the sharing tools.
* Corrected swatch scrolling behavior on iOS devices.
* Corrected page turn effect on iOS devices in eCatalog viewers.
* Corrected `swatchoverlay` modifier behavior in swatch-enabled viewers on touch devices.
* Corrected support for video captions in MixedMediaViewer in cases where the video does not come first in the media set.

## Known issues and restrictions {#known-issues-and-restrictions}

* The Image Serving modifiers from IS commands are not added to the `req=set` request by design. However, modifiers that only affect image display work fine. Modifiers affecting size must be used in a complex asset. For example:

   `https://s7d9.scene7.com/s7viewers/html5/BasicZoomViewer.html?asset= {Scene7SharedAssets/Backpack_B?extendn=0.5%252C0.5%252C0.5%252C0.5}`

* Scaling the browser window leads to incorrect resizing.
* iPad 2 - Large eCatalog assets crash Safari on iOS.

### All viewers {#all-viewers}

* Watermarks, obfuscation, and locking are not supported.
* Image presets are not supported.
* Adding or removing viewer from the DOM using `display:none` CSS or by dynamically detaching it from the parent node is not supported.

### HTML5 all viewers {#html5-all-viewers}

* Embedding a viewer in a table may result in incorrect sizing or placement of the viewer in non-native full-screen mode. Adobe recommends you use DIVs instead.
* Parameters with explicit instance names in the code require instance names in the URL as well to be overwritten (for example, `zoomView.iconfeffect=0`).
* Image Serving command `crop` is not supported.
* Close button only works if the viewer is open in a child window.
* IS commands modifier does not support Image Serving modifiers that affect image size.

### HTML5 eCatalog {#html5-ecatalog}

* Navigating to other HTML page and then returning occasionally causes the viewer to reset back to the first page.
* Page layout occasionally displays incorrectly after rotating the iOS device. Zooming into the page corrects the layout.
* Internal links only to left-most page in multi-page spreads. Affects mobile devices in portrait mode.

### HTML5 Mixed Media {#html5-mixed-media}

* Soundtrack play is not supported.

### HTML5 Social {#html5-social}

* To render thumbnails properly in outgoing email, the `serverurl` modifier must have an absolute URL.

### HTML5 Video {#html5-video}

* The poster image may encounter a `max size` error. You may need to increase the limit setting for Image Serving Publish.
* Video captions require a company rule set if the hosting HTML page is served from an external server (not a Dynamic Media server). Contact technical support for assistance.
* Analytics tracking may report incorrect play percentage due to buffering.
* On iPad or Android devices, a black frame may show instead of a poster image.
* On iPad or Android devices, a black frame may flash onscreen during the loading of the viewer.
* On iPad devices, black borders are shown on the side of the VideoPlayer component when the background is set to white/transparent.
* On iPad, using iOS 7, the last frame of video may be distorted.
* On Chrome, Firefox, and Internet Explorer browsers, occasional macro blocking may occur during video seek in HLS streaming mode.
* The poster image may not show in the Microsoft Edge browser for the first time visitor.
* When progressive playback is used, the poster image may hide after the video loads in Internet Explorer 9.
