---
description: The latest release notes that describe the latest features, enhancements, and fixes for Adobe Scene7 Publishing System 6.9–part of the Adobe Experience Manager solution in the Adobe Marketing Cloud.
solution: Experience Manager
title: Scene7 Publishing System 6.9 Release Notes (October 2014)
topic: Dynamic Media
uuid: 05f0fbd2-24c6-41cc-963f-0f04bdc6c569
---

# Scene7 Publishing System 6.9 Release Notes (October 2014){#scene-publishing-system-release-notes-october}

The latest release notes that describe the latest features, enhancements, and fixes for Adobe Scene7 Publishing System 6.9–part of the Adobe Experience Manager solution in the Adobe Marketing Cloud.

## Scene7 Publishing System 6.9 Release Notes (October 2014) {#topic-1d3011ecca71488abe0d8156a9fc1b97}

The latest release notes that describe the latest features, enhancements, and fixes for [!DNL Adobe Scene7 Publishing System] 6.9-part of the Adobe Experience Manager solution in the [!DNL Adobe Marketing Cloud].

* [Scene7 Publishing System 6.9 release highlights](s7rn69.md#section-2ed72b7902be4509876d81f25b5632ce) 
* [Imaging](s7rn69.md#section-98a61ea9a09940639f357f36969d6e55) 
* [Video](s7rn69.md#section-69101b28504543a7ae8a9346d381f913) 
* [Web-to-Print](s7rn69.md#section-17c5591d279a48d3b0aea085a19d6321) 
* [Platform](s7rn69.md#section-6f0721d6ab10495a927f509f026d70f4) 
* [Viewers](s7rn69.md#section-fc0577722d0b431dae3506c8d4e5366f) 
* [Bug fixes for Scene7 Publishing System 6.9](s7rn69.md#section-86dc0e8eb85241dbb449221becb12888) 
* [Features no longer supported](s7rn69.md#section-b061ad3d170a45ee8e694f997fd5d8ef)

## Scene7 Publishing System 6.9 release highlights {#section-2ed72b7902be4509876d81f25b5632ce}

The 6.9 release features a new advanced eCatalog viewer, inline zoom viewer, video player, and more. These new capabilities let you design and deliver rich, responsive, interactive experiences that increase conversion across all digital channels.

* ** Advanced eCatalog Viewer** - With a table of contents, page animation, image map overlays and more, you can now provide a more engaging online catalog viewing experience, and highlight products and services so customers can link directly to pages that lead to increased conversion. 
* ** New Inline Zoom Viewer** - Allows for easy in-window zooming without any button clicks, so you can zoom and still maintain visibility of all product details on the page. 
* ** Video Player enhancements** - Out-of-the-box video players now include auto-loop functionality for continuous video playback, and chapter navigation to make it easy to find content in long form videos. Mixed Media video players now support captioning for global reach. 
* **Responsive design** - Further optimize the quality of responsive imaging experiences by defining different image presets or modifiers for each breakpoint. 
* **Viewer customization** - You can now dynamically set and modify viewer styling and behaviors on-the-fly. 
* **Secure preview for Visual Configurator** - Securely preview and test visual rendering for personalized experiences before you push them into production. 
* **SSO (Single Sign-On) capability** - Now you can seamlessly launch Scene7 from Adobe Marketing Cloud and use your Adobe ID to log in to Scene7.

  If you would like to have SSO setup so you can use it with Scene7, contact Adobe Technical Support. Have the following information ready so your Marketing Cloud and Scene7 accounts can be linked together: your Adobe Marketing Cloud organization name; your Scene7 company name; and your geographic region.

## Imaging {#section-98a61ea9a09940639f357f36969d6e55}

* **Enhanced responsive support** - Further optimize the quality of responsive imaging experiences by defining different image presets or modifiers for each breakpoint. See [Using Responsive Static Image Library](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/dynamic-media-developer-resources/image-serving-api/image-serving-api/responsive-static-image-library/c-about-responsive-static-image-library.html).

## Video {#section-69101b28504543a7ae8a9346d381f913}

* A new, out-of-the-box "Adaptive Video" encoding preset that now works with any aspect ratio to create videos for delivery to mobile, tablet, and desktop. Uploaded source videos that are encoded with this new preset are set to a fixed height while the width automatically scales to preserve the video’s aspect ratio. See [Video presets for encoding video files](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/dynamic-media-classic/using/setup/application-setup.html?lang=en#setup). 
* Improved elastic scalability and performance with encoding. 
* Video captioning now available in the out-of-the-box `Universal_HTML5_MixedMedia_dark` and `Universal_HTML5_MixedMedia_light` viewers. See [Adding captions to video](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/dynamic-media-classic/using/video/adding-captions-video.html#video).

<!-- OBSOLETE ## Web-to-Print {#section-17c5591d279a48d3b0aea085a19d6321}

* **Adobe Illustrator Plug-in for Web-to-Print and Adobe InDesign Plug-in for Web-to-Print** - These two new plug-in replace the previous CSXS (Creative Suite Extension) plug-in for Web-to-Print in Scene7. See [Quick Start: Template Publishing](http://help.adobe.com/en_US/scene7/using/WS447286D6-49D9-427c-906A-3A8169974681.html). -->

## Platform {#section-6f0721d6ab10495a927f509f026d70f4}~~~~

* Secure Testing for Render Server requests - Secure Testing for core image serving assets and video assets is now extended to also include vignettes. See [Testing assets before making them public](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/dynamic-media-classic/using/upload-publish/testing-assets-making-them-public.html#upload-publish). 
* Monitoring of the Invalidate CDN cache feature - After you have selected your CDN Invalidation Template (see [General Settings](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/dynamic-media-classic/using/setup/application-setup.html#general-settings)), and an **[!UICONTROL Invalidate CDN]** request is made from the File menu in SPS, an indicator now pops up in the user interface that give you an estimate of how long it will take to clear the cache.

## Viewers {#section-fc0577722d0b431dae3506c8d4e5366f}

**New features, enhancements, and bug fixes for Scene7 HTML5 Viewer SDK 2.8.1**

General

* Components using `insertBefore()` API now use `appendChild()` API. 
* Added support for `setCSS()`, `setModifier()`, and `dispose()` methods. 
* Added support for `getWidth()`, and `getHeight()` methods. 
* Added suppport for `setPortrait()` and `setLandscape ()` methods. 
* Fixed - IE9: s7sdk.event: PageMouseEvent: click and double-click events triggers crash browser page. 
* Added `TableOfContents` component.

FlyoutzoomView

* Fixed - Firefox: Broken image icons briefly displayed on flyout until tiles are loaded. 
* Added support to control upscaling of images using zoomfactor modifier. 
* Added support for displaying narrow images using highlightMode modifier. 
* Added support for tracking events.

ImageMapEffect

* Added support to display maps as overlays.

MediaSet

* Added support for custom labels defined with localization symbols. 
* Refactored component for improved complex asset support. 
* Added support for returning orientation-specific `MediaSetDesc` objects. 
* Fixed - Imagex fails to display if IS modifier with comma is appended to asset ID. 
* Fixed - Imagesets: IS modifiers appended to assetID are ignored.

PageView

* Added support for native page scrolling. 
* Added support for page turn animation.

SpinView

* Fixed - Image shifted to the right if `DIV` has `text-align:center` style.

Swatches

* Added support for native page scrolling.

ThumbnailGridView

* Added support for native page scrolling.

VideoPlayer

* Added support for navigation cue points. 
* Refactored component to use media events instead of timer. 
* Added support for looping video playback.

VideoScrubber

* Added support for navigation chapters.

ZoomView

* Fixed - Image shifted to the right if `DIV` has `text-align:center` style.

**Bug fix for Scene7 OnDemand 5.0.2**

* Fixed - Embedded modifiers were not getting enclosed in quotes

**New features, enhancements, and bug fixes for Dynamic Media Image Serving Viewers 5.1.1**

Viewer upgrades are backwards compatible and therefore, no changes are necessary to your existing web code. However, it is recommended that you test the new viewers on our staging environment. The following website gives instructions on how you can set up your system to access our staging server:

[http://helpx.adobe.com/experience-manager/scene7/kb/base/upgrade-management/testing-scene7-viewers-upgrade.html](http://helpx.adobe.com/experience-manager/scene7/kb/base/upgrade-management/testing-scene7-viewers-upgrade.html)

After you have set up your computer to access the staging server, you can check your website to test the upgrade. For customers using out-of-the-box HTML5 viewers, best practice is for you to test against our standard staging server and s7is1-preview-staging.scene7.com.

New features and enhancements

See also [Scene7 Viewers Reference Guide](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/dynamic-media-developer-resources/library/home.html).

* Updated support for Internet Explorer 11 
* Changed viewers to use Track requests instead of Page requests for Adobe Analytics tracking 
* Added support for responsive images using image commands and/or image presets based upon image width 
* Added support for passing localization text strings to JSON argument of HTML5 viewers 
* Added support for native page scrolling in HTML5 viewer swatches 
* Improved support for complex assets and image templates to HTML5 viewers 
* Added support for table of contents to HTML5 eCatalog viewer 
* Added support for image map overlays versus icons to HTML5 eCatalog 
* Added support for page turn animation to HTML5 eCatalog viewer 
* Added support for native page scrolling in HTML5 eCatalog 
* Added support for displaying narrow images using highlightmode modifier to HTML5 Flyout Viewer 
* Added support to control upscaling of images using zoomfactor modifier to HTML5 Flyout Viewer 
* Added support for tracking events generated by HTML5 Flyout Viewer 
* Added caption support for video (first video only) to HTML5 MixedMedia viewer 
* Increased initial bitrate default to 1400 for HTML5 Video and MixedMedia viewers 
* Added support for looping video playback to HTML5 Video viewer 
* Added support for navigation chapters to HTML5 Video viewer

Bug fixes

* HTML5 eCatalog Viewer not displaying PageIndicator on iPhone 
* Images fail to display if Image Serving modifier with comma is appended to asset ID 
* Imagesets: Image Serving modifiers appended to assetID are ignored 
* Internet Explorer 9: s7sdk.event: PageMouseEvent: click and double-click events triggers crash browser page 
* Internet Explorer 9 and Internet Explorer 10: eCatalog viewer breaks after activating image map with JavaScript template 
* HTML5 MixedMedia viewer: Zoom button states not reset when swapping asset types 
* HTML5 MixedMedia viewer: Viewer collapsed in responsive mode if first asset is 2dspinset 
* Firefox: Broken image icons briefly displayed on flyout until tiles are loaded 
* Pinch gestures do not generate zoom 
* eCatalog: Imagemaps: JavaScript error occurring with relative links

Known issues and restrictions

All Scene7 viewers

* Watermarks, obfuscation, and locking are not supported. 
* Image presets are not supported.

HTML5-all viewers

* Embedding viewer in table may result in incorrect sizing or placement of viewer in non-native fullscreen mode. Suggest using DIVs instead. 
* Parameters with explicit instance names in the code must be overwritten; instance names in a URL must also be overwritten. For example, `zoomView.iconfeffect=0`. 
* Image Serving command crop is not supported. 
* Close button only works if the viewer is open in a child window. 
* Iscommands modifier does not support Image Serving modifiers that affect image size. 
* CSS style "display: none" on DIV container is not supported at this time. This includes jQuery hide() method.

HTML5 eCatalog viewer

* Navigating to another HTML page and then returning occasionally causes the viewer to reset back to the first page. 
* Page layout occasionally displays incorrectly after rotating the iOS device. Zoom into page corrects layout. 
* Internal links only to leftmost page in multi-page spreads. Affects mobile devices in portrait mode. 
* InitalFrame links only to leftmost page in multi-page spreads. Affects mobile devices in portrait mode.

HTML5 Mixed Media viewer

* Soundtrack play is not supported.

HTML5 Social viewer

* To render thumbnails properly in outgoing email the `serverurl` modifier should have an absolute URL.

HTML5 Video viewer

* The poster image may encounter a "max size" error. As such, you may need to increase the limit setting for Image Serving Publish. 
* Video captions require a company ruleset if they are hosting an HTML page that is served from an external server that is not a Scene7 server. Contact Adobe technical support for assistance. 
* Analytics tracking may report incorrect play percentage due to buffering 
* Black frame instead of poster image may show on iPad or Android devices. 
* Black frame may flash on screen during viewer load on iPad or Android devices. 
* Black borders are shown on side of VideoPlayer component when background is set to white/transparent on iPad devices. 
* Last frame of video may be distorted on iPad using iOS 7.

## Bug fixes for Scene7 Publishing System 6.9 {#section-86dc0e8eb85241dbb449221becb12888}

* The total number of exported assets comes out to be one greater that the original number in the Export Job log details. 
* In generated 1d-spin by batchset preset, it should only show the warning once when the Spin Set Editor is opened. 
* Unable to preview out-of-the-box HTML5 Video Viewer Presets. 
* Scene7 Publishing System continued to remember the group, even if the rule was rewritten. 
* Scene7 Publishing System did not properly display certain regular expression code for a repeat. 
* All of batchset presets are applied while uploading, if none of the presets are selected.

## Features no longer supported {#section-b061ad3d170a45ee8e694f997fd5d8ef}

* Scene7 Creative Suite Extensions are deprecated in this release due to the Creative Cloud Application's de-support of Flash panels. Further development of content ingestion workflows are focusing on Adobe Experience Manager Dynamic Media and Creative Cloud. For Scene7, upload and export capabilities in the Scene7 Publishing System remain and can be used instead. 
* UGC Video is deprecated in this release due to low adoption. Setting up another SPS account can serve as a replacement solution for UGC Video. Contact Adobe Technical Support to have another account set up. 
* Text hyphenation is deprecated in this release due to low adoption. The hyphenation dictionaries defined how words could be split and hyphenated to support optimal text flow. 
* Metadata Server and Similarity Search will both be deprecated in 2015 due to low adoption. When the official deprecation target date is announced, affected customers will be notified by Adobe Technical Support. 
* Reminder: As of January 31, 2014, Scene7 officially ended support for the DHTML viewer platform.

  For more information about this change, see the following FAQ website:

  [http://dev.day.com/content/docs/en/cq/current/administering/integrating_with_omniture/scene7/dhtml-viewer-endoflifefaqs.html](http://dev.day.com/content/docs/en/cq/current/administering/integrating_with_omniture/scene7/dhtml-viewer-endoflifefaqs.html)

