---
title: Scene7 Publishing System 6.6 Release Notes
description: The latest release notes that describe the latest features, enhancements, and fixes for Adobe Scene7 Publishing System 6.6, part of the Adobe Experience Manager solution in the Adobe Experience Cloud.
solution: Experience Manager
feature: Dynamic Media Classic
role: Developer,User
exl-id: 19c323db-7da8-47ae-a9d9-4ead4b8d739e
TQID: 'https://experienceleague.adobe.com/YY3rtipQcHdFYLetLIEYAjhLWBX0M5J-AyOqteCxkN8'
product_v2:
  - id: fd1f54a9-f50c-467d-8956-cebbaf4f3eb8
    internal-label: Experience Manager
feature_v2:
  - id: a01bfd36-4ab8-4bf8-9dc0-5b45b890552e
    internal-label: APIs
role_v2:
  - id: b69b2659-1057-424e-8fc5-ed9e016dc554
    internal-label: User
  - id: ff6a42d2-313e-452e-93a6-792e4fad9ff8
    internal-label: Developer
topic_v2:
  - id: c1579802-ddd4-4214-8a91-97b2066abe11
    internal-label: Troubleshooting
  - id: d095671a-1355-40aa-8b5f-06c33c68080b
    internal-label: Security
---
# Scene7 Publishing System 6.6 Release Notes{#scene-publishing-system-release-notes}

The latest release notes that describe the latest features, enhancements, and fixes for Adobe Scene7 Publishing System 6.6–part of the Adobe Experience Cloud.

## IMPORTANT NOTICE: DHTML VIEWERS END-OF-LIFE {#section-58966909d9ec4eacbb6153b83b1642d3}

***Effective January 31, 2014, Scene7 officially ended support for the DHTML viewer platform.***

## New Software Features, Enhancements, and Fixes {#section-30a6201e50b74fc194c08bd732672ac1}

**Asset Management and Publishing**

* Instant Publishing

  Improves speed and predictability of publishing process by eliminating the need to mark assets for publishing before publishing. Being rolled out gradually. 

* Search performance improvements for customers with large asset repositories. 
* Auto Set Generation now allows the selection of folders. 
* Improved usability for generating a URL for published, static assets.

**Viewers**

* HTML5 SDK

  The following features and enhancements were added to the Scene7 Viewer, HTML5 Software Development Kit:

  * The handling of swatches such as dragging on the first or last swatch, swatch alignment, scrolling one page of swatches at a time, and container fill. 
  * Added support for transparency in Zoom view, Zoom targets, Swatches, navigation view, and Spin view. 
  * Compatibility with Prototype JavaScript (prototype.js). 
  * Compatibility with jQuery on Internet Explorer. 
  * Enhancements made to eCatalog page scrubber, grid view, page view, and swatch thumbnails. 
  * Logging support and trace statements for troubleshooting.

* Out-of-the box HTML5 viewers

  * You can now develop a video player with the ability to play on desktop computers and multiple mobile devices, all from a single platform. You can create this capability by way of the Scene7 Viewer, HTML5 Software Development Kit, version 6.5. 
  * A new embedded Flyout zoom (FlyoutViewer) image viewer is now available for desktop computers and mobile devices.

* Embed Code

  * Universal Viewer Embed SDK is now integrated with Scene7 Publishing System. 
  * Embedding of HTML5 viewers with JavaScript (not iframe). 
  * Support added for asset and viewer modifiers in universal viewer embed. 
  * Support added for JavaScript functions in the Universal Viewer embed code, such as tracking by way of SiteCatalyst.

* Improved reliability of eCatalog functionality with various enhancements to S7Info, S7Search, and S7InfoAdmin.

**Adaptive Creative and Imaging**

* Improve efficiency of asset ingestion and preparation.

  * Remove opaque image background on ingestion.

    Pixel-based. User-definable handling of interior areas. 
  * Auto-crop to path-boundary enhancements.

    Pixel-based. Eliminates need for a transparent pixel in the lower left corner.

* Web To Print enhancements

  * Convert fonts to outlines. 
  * Maintain source image format and color space during FXG conversion.

**Security Improvements**

* SPS security enhancements

  * Support for SSL (for areas where communication remains unencrypted) 
  * Account enumeration: challenge-response test for username submission 
  * Email servlet authentication restricts access to email sending 
  * Removed restricted access to Record Login servlet 
  * Password reset by way of encrypted link 
  * Segregate DNS (SPS and Image Server)

* IPS security enhancement

  * Client-focused request to move all originating applications doing API requests to SSL

**eVideo**

* A new, universal HTML5 Video player that lets you design all video components once &ndash; such as buttons and play timer &ndash; in HTML5 and then deliver the best possible video playback experience across multiple devices and screens.

* Improved video encoding turnaround time where one video file is read and then output to multiple encodings.
