---
title: Scene7 Publishing System 6.10 Release Notes (May 2015)
description: "The latest release notes that describe the new features, enhancements, and fixes for Adobe Scene7 Publishing System 6.10, part of the Adobe Experience Manager solution in the Adobe Marketing Cloud."
solution: Experience Manager
feature: Dynamic Media Classic
role: Developer,Business Practitioner
exl-id: dd998249-1986-491f-b0ab-554ab414f602
---
# Scene7 Publishing System 6.10 Release Notes (May 2015){#scene-publishing-system-release-notes-may}

The latest release notes that describe the new features, enhancements, and fixes for Adobe Scene7 Publishing System 6.10–part of the Adobe Experience Manager solution in the Adobe Marketing Cloud.

## Scene7 Publishing System 6.10 Release Notes (May 2015) {#topic-be8b44aea42643c496452726d4550226}

The latest release notes that describe the new features, enhancements, and fixes for [!DNL Adobe Scene7 Publishing System] 6.10-part of the [!DNL Adobe Experience Manager] solution in the [!DNL Adobe Marketing Cloud].

* [Scene7 Publishing System 6.10 release highlights](s7rn610.md#section-d2c3b12e392446868eba029cbe13c06b) 
* [Scene7 IPS (Image Production System) 4.5.0](s7rn610.md#section-3e37ed37b6d146419f4578bd7ffeaa74) 
* [Viewers](s7rn610.md#section-833ab92c91c941d2bfdc27f233f582ad) 
* [Bug fixes for Scene7 Publishing System 6.10](s7rn610.md#section-99c1171604ff4ce489285dcab3d929c9) 
* [Features no longer supported](s7rn610.md#section-9295ea9313c84695b19bca0e0f01a690)

## Scene7 Publishing System 6.10 release highlights {#section-d2c3b12e392446868eba029cbe13c06b}

The 6.10 release lets you design and deliver rich, responsive, interactive experiences that increase conversion across all digital channels.

* **Search type** - Ability to add company property to allow default of personal search type **[!UICONTROL Contains]**.

  In **[!UICONTROL Setup]** > **[!UICONTROL Personal Setup]** group > **[!UICONTROL Browser]** heading > **[!UICONTROL Basic Search Type]** drop-down list - **[!UICONTROL Contains]**.

<table id="table_69203DAA18F94A0F927BBA00634EBF65"> 
 <thead> 
  <tr> 
   <th colname="col1" class="entry"> <p>Setting </p> </th> 
   <th colname="col2" class="entry"> <p>Description </p> </th> 
  </tr> 
 </thead>
 <tbody> 
  <tr> 
   <td colname="col1"> <p> <span class="uicontrol"> Contains </span> </p> </td> 
   <td colname="col2"> <p>Default. Searches the full string for a specified value. </p> </td> 
  </tr> 
  <tr> 
   <td colname="col1"> <p> <span class="uicontrol"> StartsWith </span> </p> </td> 
   <td colname="col2"> <p> Searches from the beginning of the string and returns search results faster than <span class="uicontrol"> Contains </span>. </p> <p>It overrides the default that is set in <span class="uicontrol"> Application Setup </span> &gt; <span class="uicontrol"> General Settings </span> group &gt; <span class="uicontrol"> Other Settings, to Application </span> group &gt; <span class="uicontrol"> Default Basic Search Type for New Users </span> drop-down list by the Admin. </p> </td> 
  </tr> 
 </tbody> 
</table>

  In **[!UICONTROL Application Setup]** > **[!UICONTROL General Settings]** group > **[!UICONTROL Other Settings, to Application]** group > **[!UICONTROL Default Basic Search Type for New Users]** drop-down list.

<table id="table_A48D69C0F26D43B58C4C890FBF908F8A"> 
 <thead> 
  <tr> 
   <th colname="col1" class="entry"> <p>Setting </p> </th> 
   <th colname="col2" class="entry"> <p>Description </p> </th> 
  </tr> 
 </thead>
 <tbody> 
  <tr> 
   <td colname="col1"> <p> <span class="uicontrol"> Contains </span> </p> </td> 
   <td colname="col2"> <p> Searches the full string for a specified value. </p> </td> 
  </tr> 
  <tr> 
   <td colname="col1"> <p> <span class="uicontrol"> StartsWith </span> </p> </td> 
   <td colname="col2"> <p>Searches from the beginning of the string and returns search results faster than <span class="uicontrol"> Contains </span>. </p> <p>New users can choose to override this default in <span class="uicontrol"> Personal Setup </span>. </p> </td> 
  </tr> 
 </tbody> 
</table>

* **New settings added to out-of-the-box HTML5 Spin Set Viewers** - In **[!UICONTROL Setup]** > **[!UICONTROL Application Setup]** > **[!UICONTROL Viewers]** > **[!UICONTROL Viewer Presets]** > `Universal_HTML5_SpinSet_dark` or `Universal_HTML5_SpinSet_light`, the following additions were made to each viewer's respective [!DNL Configure Viewer] page:

<table id="table_E78C924E34894CD7BE080C0D71500784"> 
 <thead> 
  <tr> 
   <th colname="col1" class="entry"> <p>New setting </p> </th> 
   <th colname="col2" class="entry"> <p>Description </p> </th> 
  </tr> 
 </thead>
 <tbody> 
  <tr> 
   <td colname="col1"> <p> <span class="uicontrol"> Autospin </span> </p> </td> 
   <td colname="col2"> <p>Enables or disables the automatic spin animation. Default is <span class="uicontrol"> Off </span>. When set to <span class="uicontrol"> On </span>, you can specify the spin duration which is the number of seconds for one full spin; default is <span class="codeph"> 5 </span>. Set the spin direction to right or left; default is <span class="uicontrol"> Right </span>. </p> </td> 
  </tr> 
  <tr> 
   <td colname="col1"> <p> <span class="uicontrol"> Rotation count </span> </p> </td> 
   <td colname="col2"> <p>Lets you set the <span class="uicontrol"> Rotation count </span> which is the number of full rotations before autospin stops; default is <span class="codeph"> 1 </span>. </p> <p>Setting the rotation count to <span class="codeph"> -1 </span> results in an infinite auto spin. </p> </td> 
  </tr> 
  <tr> 
   <td colname="col1"> <p> <span class="uicontrol"> High-resolution preload </span> </p> </td> 
   <td colname="col2"> <p>Setting <span class="uicontrol"> High-resolution preload </span> to <span class="uicontrol"> On </span> loads the configured frame range in high quality. Enabling this setting can significantly increase bandwidth usage and page load time. </p> </td> 
  </tr> 
 </tbody> 
</table>

* **New settings added to out-of-the-box HTML5 eCatalog Viewers** - In **[!UICONTROL Setup]** > **[!UICONTROL Application Setup]** > **[!UICONTROL Viewer Presets]** > `Universal_HTML5_eCatalog` or `Universal_HTML5_eCatalog_Adv`, the following additions were made to each viewer's respective [!DNL Configure Viewer] page:

<table id="table_65BA9F98D1D041109A44B1C130EF4EFA"> 
 <thead> 
  <tr> 
   <th colname="col1" class="entry"> <p>New setting </p> </th> 
   <th colname="col2" class="entry"> <p>Description </p> </th> 
  </tr> 
 </thead>
 <tbody> 
  <tr> 
   <td colname="col1"> <p> <span class="uicontrol"> Print </span> </p> </td> 
   <td colname="col2"> <p>The tab includes a <span class="uicontrol"> Print quality </span> setting that lets you specify the maximum size of the image that is sent to the printer. Default is <span class="codeph"> 1000 </span>. </p> </td> 
  </tr> 
  <tr> 
   <td colname="col1"> <p> <span class="uicontrol"> Favorites </span> </p> </td> 
   <td colname="col2"> <p>The tab includes settings for <span class="uicontrol"> Expiration time </span> and <span class="uicontrol"> Favorites Thumbnail Size </span> (). </p> <p> 
     <ul id="ul_42DA3E946E5445B98B5D8CE668F0139F"> 
      <li id="li_B4EC8934863347AF8494C64ADBEEC4D6"> <span class="uicontrol"> Expiration time </span> - Lets you specify the number of days that the collection of Favorites is kept on the user's system before they expire. Each time the user visits the eCatalog and adds or deletes Favorites, the expiration time is reset. Default is <span class="codeph"> 30 </span> days. </li> 
      <li id="li_D57F9D7ABEB84F819191AD863A5DADCF"> <span class="uicontrol"> Favorites Thumbnail Size </span> - Lets you specify the size ( <span class="codeph"> 0-1.0 </span>) of the thumbnail used for Favorites. <p>The setting is expressed as a relative value to the total frame size. For example, a value of <span class="codeph"> 1.0 </span> means that the entire frame image is used for the thumbnail. A value of <span class="codeph"> 0.1 </span> (default) means that ten percent of the frame size is used for the thumbnail. </p> </li> 
     </ul> </p> </td> 
  </tr> 
 </tbody> 
</table>

* **New settings added to out-of-the-box HTML5 Mixed Media Set Viewers** - In **[!UICONTROL Setup]** > **[!UICONTROL Application Setup]** > **[!UICONTROL Viewer Presets]** > `Universal_HTML5_MixedMedia_dark` or `Universal_HTML5_MixedMedia_light`, the following additions were made to each viewer's respective [!DNL Configure Viewer] page:

<table id="table_023203E3CC484F59A350C3C333EF817F"> 
 <thead> 
  <tr> 
   <th colname="col1" class="entry"> <p>New setting </p> </th> 
   <th colname="col2" class="entry"> <p>Description </p> </th> 
  </tr> 
 </thead>
 <tbody> 
  <tr> 
   <td colname="col1"> <p> <span class="uicontrol"> Zoom mode </span> drop-down list </p> </td> 
   <td colname="col2"> <p>Lets you configure the type of the zoom animation to use. On the left rail, click <span class="uicontrol"> Viewer Features </span> to access the following <span class="uicontrol"> Zoom mode </span> options from the drop-down list: </p> <p> 
     <ul id="ul_8026EF465A044666A9DBCBFA43F74565"> 
      <li id="li_816C7D214DE44C488787AF92CEF0BDF9"> <span class="uicontrol"> continuous </span> (default) - requires a user to click or tap on the image to zoom. </li> 
      <li id="li_C78D3C94C36549B182E1118308BD7326"> <span class="uicontrol"> inline </span> - runs zoom on mouse hover. </li> 
      <li id="li_1483A67210E14064B12D785BAE045C6F"> <span class="uicontrol"> auto </span> - automatically applies <span class="uicontrol"> continuous </span> on desktops and <span class="uicontrol"> inline </span> on touch devices. </li> 
     </ul> </p> </td> 
  </tr> 
  <tr> 
   <td colname="col1"> <p> <span class="uicontrol"> Flyout/Inline Zoom </span> tab </p> </td> 
   <td colname="col2"> <p> On the left rail, click <span class="uicontrol"> Flyout/Inline Zoom </span> to access the following available options: </p> <p> 
     <ul id="ul_081A473EFAAC47DD8CF5260492A53C67"> 
      <li id="li_A672C11207524F8AB7957B6848F4FFF1"> <span class="uicontrol"> Primary Zoom Factor </span> (default: <span class="codeph"> 3 </span>) and <span class="uicontrol"> Secondary Zoom Factor </span> (optional; default: <span class="codeph"> -1 </span>) - Specifies the image magnification for the flyout/inline view, relative to the reset view. Specify an integer or a floating point value of <span class="codeph"> 1.0 </span> or larger. <p>You can specify an optional secondary zoom factor. The secondary zoom is accessible by clicking on the main view when the highlight is active. Clicking a second time reverts to the primary zoom factor. A value of <span class="codeph"> -1 </span> disables the secondary zoom factor. </p> </li> 
      <li id="li_C240206B2E3F4919935C05A253022ED9"> <span class="uicontrol"> Preload Zoom Image </span> (default: <span class="codeph"> Off </span>) - Set to <span class="uicontrol"> On </span> (1) to enable preloading of the zoomed image; set to <span class="uicontrol"> Off </span> (0) to load the zoom image incrementally, as needed. <p>If you enable this option, it results in substantially higher bandwidth usage because the zoomed image is loaded in its entirety, even if no zoom action is taken by the user. </p> </li> 
      <li id="li_3B9FDD1C82E94E1AB77055B76947F110"> <span class="uicontrol"> Tip text for desktop </span> - Lets you specify the text for an optional tip that appears on the viewer for desktop systems. </li> 
      <li id="li_8C709D34A371486EB8C561DE3A2A48B9"> <span class="uicontrol"> Tip text for mobile devices </span> - Lets you specify the text for an optional tip that appears on the viewer for mobile touch devices. </li> 
      <li id="li_BB51273170054C3A8241F8F3B6856DA0"> <span class="uicontrol"> Tip Duration </span> (default: <span class="codeph"> 3 </span>), <span class="uicontrol"> Tip Count </span> (default: <span class="codeph"> 1 </span>), and <span class="uicontrol"> Tip Fade </span> (default: <span class="codeph"> 0.3 </span>) - These three options let you specify the display behavior for optional tip text. <p>Use <span class="uicontrol"> Tip Duration </span> to specify the number of seconds the text displays before it hides. If you set the duration to <span class="codeph"> -1 </span>, the tip text displays continuously, even if the user activates zoom. </p> <p>Use <span class="uicontrol"> Tip Count </span> to specify the number of times the text displays when viewing new images in the set. If you set tip count to <span class="codeph"> -1 </span>, the text displays continuously when viewing any image in the set. </p> <p> <span class="uicontrol"> Tip Fade </span> lets you specify the duration of a fade animation that occurs when the text appears or disappears. If you set tip fade to <span class="codeph"> 0 </span>, no fade transition is used. </p> </li> 
     </ul> </p> </td> 
  </tr> 
 </tbody> 
</table>

## Scene7 IPS (Image Production System) 4.5.0 {#section-3e37ed37b6d146419f4578bd7ffeaa74}

**New features**

* Now running through JDK 1.8. 
* Support for the EXIF orientation tag. 
* Upload directory file skip for temporary FTP files (as created with ProFTP). 
* Instant publishing is now supported for Image Rendering. This means your rendered vignette assets are immediately available for launch on your website, without the need to initiate a publish job. If you are interested in using this feature, contact Technical Support to have them enable your account for instant publish.

**New configuration parameters**

<table id="table_8B704CC077304CE2AC3E616D40B64CEF"> 
 <thead> 
  <tr> 
   <th colname="col1" class="entry"> <p>Parameters </p> </th> 
   <th colname="col2" class="entry"> <p>Description </p> </th> 
  </tr> 
 </thead>
 <tbody> 
  <tr> 
   <td colname="col1"> <span class="codeph"> uploadserver.file.skip.list </span> </td> 
   <td colname="col2"> <p> Comma-delimited list of regular expressions to match temporary filenames. Default is <span class="codeph"> .in..+ </span> </p> </td> 
  </tr> 
  <tr> 
   <td colname="col1"> <span class="codeph"> uploadserver.file.skip.remove.timeout </span> </td> 
   <td colname="col2"> <p> Time, in seconds, to wait since the last file modification before deleting a temporary file in an upload folder job. </p> <p>A value of <span class="codeph"> &lt;= 0 </span> prevents temporary files from being deleted. Default is 3600. </p> </td> 
  </tr> 
  <tr> 
   <td colname="col1"> <p> <span class="codeph"> autoset.dupcheck.sleep.time </span> </p> </td> 
   <td colname="col2"> <p>Default is 100. </p> </td> 
  </tr> 
  <tr> 
   <td colname="col1"> <p> <span class="codeph"> autoset.dupretry.counter </span> </p> </td> 
   <td colname="col2"> <p>Default is 3. </p> </td> 
  </tr> 
 </tbody> 
</table>

**Features no longer supported**

* Catalog Server Resync option within the IPS Classic Publish Validate - removed. 
* You can no longer set empty or duplicate metadata tag field values.

**Bug fixes**

* The `<metadataArray>` was empty for the [!DNL .vtt] file in response of the API `getAssets`. 

* Missing userdata field for orientation. 
* Response from `getJobLogDetails` for a job updating an ACO file was not correctly specifying job details. 
* PSD Primary File was logged as published multiple times per Image Server. 
* Assets with invalid characters in their name could be uploaded into IPS. 
* Video thumbnails that failed to generate were left in a "Pending in Queue" state. 
* Race condition with folder restoration between large `deleteFolder` and server directory upload. 
* PDFfiles were getting logged as published twice per publish server when early published on upload. 
* Uploading multiple PSD files with the same layers names led to optimization errors. 
* PDFL Rasterization of customer PDF resulted in an unexpected white line in the generated image. 
* Video thumbnail files were published multiple times on upload. 
* Duplicate upload file detection generated two upload notifications, throwing off the completed file accounting. 
* Sidecar XML file for video transcode was logged as published multiple times on update. 
* moveFolder failed when you deleted the nested folder and moved another folder—which is not in the parent folder of the nested folder and has the same name with the nested folder—to the location where the nested folder used to be. 
* Cluster status configuration entries in shared and local configuration were not purged through cleanup. 
* Change API log parser to filter for email address formats. 
* Video processing does not map `Iptc4xmpCore:Location` properly. 
* Race condition existed between cleanup and upload. 
* Publishing does not use `assetFile` so staging publishing only works for new assets. 
* Null Pointer thrown when updating a Ruleset.

## Viewers {#section-833ab92c91c941d2bfdc27f233f582ad}

**New features, enhancements, and bug fixes for Dynamic Media Image Serving Viewers 5.2.2**

Viewer upgrades are backwards compatible—no changes are necessary to your existing web code. However, it is recommended that you test the new viewers on our staging environment. The following website gives instructions on how you can set up your system to access our staging server:

[http://helpx.adobe.com/experience-manager/scene7/kb/base/upgrade-management/testing-scene7-viewers-upgrade.html](http://helpx.adobe.com/experience-manager/scene7/kb/base/upgrade-management/testing-scene7-viewers-upgrade.html)

After you have set up your computer to access the staging server, you can check your website to test the upgrade. If you are using out-of-the-box HTML5 viewers, the best practice is for you to test against our standard staging server and s7is5-preview-staging.scene7.com.

New features and enhancements

See also [Viewers Reference Guide](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/dynamic-media-developer-resources/library/home.html).

* Added support for Print, Download, and Favorites in the eCatalog Viewer. 
* Added ability to retrieve ParameterManager using getComponent API. 
* Converted Spin Viewer, Zoom Viewer, Video Viewer and Flyout Viewer to use sprites for artwork. 
* Added support for IE11 native full-screen. 
* Refactored simulated (non-native) full-screen support in Container. 
* Increased CSS small marker size to support larger phones. 
* Removed CSS size markers for HTML5 Spin, BasicZoom, Zoom, Spin, and MixedMedia viewers on desktop browsers. 
* Added support to allow quality configuration of preloaded frames in SpinView. 
* Fixed - Galaxy S4, portrait mode: Incorrect CSS size marker used when full-screen mode was enabled. 
* Fixed - [eCatalog] image maps are stuck after using javascript templates for external linking on Internet Explorer 9. 
* Fixed - Internet Explorer 9 and Internet Explorer 10: zoom works incorrectly if width property is defined for IMGs in CSS.

**New features, enhancements, and bug fixes for Scene7 HTML5 Viewer SDK 2.9.2**

General

* Fixed an issue where s7sdk.browser.device.version detected fifth Android incorrectly. 
* Removed usage of visibility:visible styling in SDK components.

FlyoutzoomView

* Fixed - [IE9] The Flyout sometimes remained onscreen after the mouse was moved off. 
* Fixed - iscommand string was getting added twice to the initial image. 
* Additional status events were added.

PageView

* Fixed - Page turn was not working correctly if the drag gesture began vertically and then moved horizontally. 
* Additional status events were added.

SpinView

* Implemented HTML5 auto spin. 
* Additional status events were added.

Swatches

* Additional status events were added.

ThumbnailGridView

* Additional status events were added.

VideoPlayer

* Additional status events were added.

ZoomView

* Fixed - ZoomView - broken zoom and pan on IE if the max-width:100% is defined for IMGs in the CSS. 
* Additional status events were added.

**Bug fix for Scene7 OnDemand 5.0.3**

* Fixed - Removed comment in Video embed code referencing non-support for multiple videos on page.

## Bug fixes for Scene7 Publishing System 6.10 {#section-99c1171604ff4ce489285dcab3d929c9}

* Manually created SwatchSets of size "1" were getting unpublished. 
* No support for png8 with gray pixelType. 
* Publish settings did not show color profiles from Scene7 Shared Assets company. 
* Upload from FTP screen: FTP folders were not sorted but the Output was a sorted folder list. 
* Changed the description of the "Asset Access Permissions" tab of the Edit Group in Media Portal Settings. 
* Malformed `clientAddressFilter` was causing an exception from the Catalog server while using the Secure Test Image Serving Publish settings. 
* Copy URL for PDF fails in the Chrome browser when multiple consecutive spaces are present in the URL. 
* Inconsistent FTP server and FTP account information in Scene7 Publishing System. 
* Removal of the [!DNL Adobe Marketing Cloud] Linking wizard button. 
* MPEG video was getting encoded, but it was not playable. 
* The bandwidth daily report was broken after an s7report web service's update. 
* The start and end date were being incorrectly set in the origin dashboard domain report. 
* Refinements made to the Web-to-Print download experience in Scene7 Publishing System. 
* Implemented configuration user interface for creating and updating tag-type metadata fields. Support for the **[!UICONTROL Metadata Field Types]** in the `fieldType` parameter include `SingleFixedTag` and `BooleanTag` only. 

* Changed `@scene7.com` to `@adobe.com` in the Send email from address. 

* Added Image Serving Publish type option. 
* Video Streaming data did not display due to incorrect dates in the request body. 
* Historical storage data was not available for the Storage report. 
* Fault response received an error when trying to access Bandwidth and Storage setup. 
* No bandwidth data available error for the Bandwidth report even though data was displayed. 
* The current date was being displayed in the Bandwidth and Storage report instead of the selected date. 
* Changed the message that appears in the Scene7 Publishing System welcome page. 
* Added the value `Userdata` field back into advanced searching. 
* An error resulted when you added a User-Defined Field ( **[!UICONTROL Setup]** > **Metadata** > **User-Defined Field**) of type `Boolean`, and a value of `true`, then saved it.

## Features no longer supported {#section-9295ea9313c84695b19bca0e0f01a690}

* **Flash Viewers End-of-Life Notice** *Effective January 31, 2017, Adobe Scene7 (now Dynamic Media Classic) officially ended support for the Flash viewer platform.*

* Reminder: As of January 31, 2014, Scene7 officially ended support for the DHTML viewer platform.

  For more information about this change, see the following FAQ website:

  [http://dev.day.com/content/docs/en/cq/current/administering/integrating_with_omniture/scene7/dhtml-viewer-endoflifefaqs.html](http://dev.day.com/content/docs/en/cq/current/administering/integrating_with_omniture/scene7/dhtml-viewer-endoflifefaqs.html) 

* Scene7 Creative Suite Extensions are deprecated in this release due to the Creative Cloud Application's de-support of Flash panels. Further development of content ingestion workflows are focusing on Adobe Experience Manager Dynamic Media and Creative Cloud. For Scene7, upload and export capabilities in the Scene7 Publishing System remain and can be used instead. 
* UGC Video is deprecated in this release due to low adoption. Setting up another Dynamic Media Classic account can serve as a replacement solution for UGC Video. Contact Adobe Technical Support to have another account set up. 
* Text hyphenation is deprecated in this release due to low adoption. The hyphenation dictionaries defined how words could be split and hyphenated to support optimal text flow. 
* Metadata Server and Similarity Search were both deprecated in 2015 due to low adoption. When the official deprecation target date is announced, affected customers will be notified by Adobe Technical Support.
